# U4L2 Writing Constructors

Constructors are special methods used to create instances of our class. Writing a constructor allows us to control what happens when an object of our class is *instantiated*. We will typically initialize the instance attributes in our constructor. A class can have more than one constructor (*overloading*).
    
## Constructor Method Signature

Constructor method signatures are typically public and never include a return type. They will always share the name of the class and may include formal parameters.

`public Pacman(int xInit, int yInit)` 

## Constructor Method Definitions

The method definition will initialize the new object's instance variables and execute any other commands that need to run on object creation. For our Pacman example, we will pass two integers to initialize Pacman's initial location. The `isAlive` and `lives` attributes are assigned default values.

```
public Pacman(int xInit, int yInit){
    x = xInit;
    y = yInit;
    isAlive = true;
    lives = 3;
}
```

## Constructor Method Overloading

When designing classes, it is often helpful to offer users multiple ways to construct an object. Remember the LAB we did on constructing color objects? The `java.awt.Color` class comes with 7 different ways to create color objects depending on whether we wanted pass hex values, integers, floats, alpha values etc. Some examples are shown below.

* `Color example1 = new Color(100, 200, 100);`
* `Color example2 = new Color(0xff00ab);`
* `Color example3 = new Color(0.25f, 0.9f, 0.5f, 0.2f);`

This is called *overloading.* Although all of the methods are named `Color()`, the Java compiler can tell which version of the method to execute based on the parameter types being passed. Our `Pacman()` constructor above required 2 integer parameters. We could add another constructor that takes no parameters and defaults the location of Pacman to (0, 0) as shown below.

```
public Pacman(){
    x = 0;
    y = 0;
    isAlive = true;
    lives = 3;
}
```
